There are pieces of this that
we could probably pull back into
that echo chamber application.
That one was still even we got to
the point where using commands to simplify
the login process.
We were seen in the database
like things were good, right,
like life was pretty sweet, but
we were still filling in that form.
Like we hid it from ourselves
with those commands.
If we're watching our tests,
we saw it happen, right?
And so this comes down to, and
is this always the right approach for you?
I don't necessarily know it
all kind of depends, right?
Like the app that I worked
on at SendGrid for instance,
the way we handle our authentication logic
was, if the first FEI request you made,
if you got a 403 forbidden then we
redirect you to the log in page.
It's like a 12 year old app.
That point so
much infrastructure is built on top of it.
So the act of having a mock server
that gave you back not 403s,
did solve that problem for us.
You can argue,
did we still have a root problem?
Sure, right, but for
the purposes of testing some of
the stuff in my case, it totally worked.
Obviously the login
functionality in that echo
chamber app basically
checks the database for
a plain text encoded password and
sets a cookie, right?
If they have the cookie, when they go to
the post page, they're allowed to see it,
if they don't have the cookie,
they are not allowed to see it.
So one of the cases where I
think that you can do is simply
either request a user from your database,
right?
And set the cookie where now you can
skip the login screen completely.
Right, or just set a cookie
that were like it's a pencil.
They're like gonna post stuff and all of
those things, right, you probably need.
It all depends on the problem
you're trying to solve, right?
Whether it needs to be a cookie based
on a real user, as it would happen or
the ability to just set
the cookie yourself but
like Cypress does give you the ability
to set cookies and get cookies and
read their values and
stuff along those lines.
So here we start off by
signing in with the user.
And we wanna say that you know,
they should be able to log in.
So here they signed in.
Once they have signed in the path
should be the post page, right?
Because we know that happened before part.
And then this case it is
base 64 encoded cookie.
We can actually look at the cookie and
make sure that what is in the cookie
is what we expect, right?
So with Cypress you have access
to the cookies in this case,
right be like okay,
when they signed in neat.
The other thing that we are kind of
able to do as well is if we wanna skip
the whole idea of filling out the form,
right?
You can also just manually set that cookie
with whatever the data that you need.
Now, depending on what you're doing,
right you might have to send
a request to a service, right?
But if you're marking out all of the API's
right that might be a thing that you
can do or a lot of times sending that
resulting JSON request to like an end to
end like to a real server is still faster
than visiting a bunch of pages and
filling in a bunch of forums, right?
So it's simply you fill in that form, and
then it sends a fetch request to
a server and then you get a cookie set.
You could just do that
like with a request and
not have to go through the rigmarole of
filling out the form if you wanna do and
just set the cookie and
do that in a before each.
There, I'm not gonna get
all the way into it.
There is an accent experimental
feature in ciphers is the only reason
not gonna dig all the way into it
which is sign up session, right.
And that gives you the ability to,
the same way memorization works or
kind of caching functions works.
Basically, it'll lets you persist
a cookie, local storage and
session storage between test runs, right?
If we're looking for the same thing,
it'll use it over and over again.
It is experimental,
you do have to turn on a flag.
We'll drop a link to the part of
the docs about it, so I'm not gonna
get all the way into because it could
change and all of those kinds of things.
But there was a way to save that.
But also depending on either, encoding
[INAUDIBLE] cookie if you just wanna make
sure they don't hit the redirect, right?
And then you're gonna mark out all
the rest of the data, that will work.
If you do need a legit user in order to do
stuff, right, it could make sense instead
of filling out the forms, we're gonna
send the resulting JSON requests And
we'll set the cookie like that.
And then we'll go through all
the pieces that we need to do.
The point of the matter is like when
you truly need end to end test,
you should do end to end tests.
When you're just trying to do ancillary
stuff about how your UI works for that
user is logged in, you've all ready tested
that all the login like logic works and
account creation stuff.
Just getting the pieces you need
in place also work as again.
Yeah, like there's a compelling part
to purity but at the cost of like,
no one runs the test suite
because it takes six hours.
But yeah, I've worked enough big
company to know that once to test,
we get either a unreliable because too
many other things can go down, right?
If you need the whole company in a docker
container, in order for it to work,
it's gonna go down and
everyone's going to stop writing tests.
And that's the kinda careful balance you
need to think about, which is like, cool.
Like, what do I really need to do here?
So in this case, we can set a cookie,
it's just a key value.
In this case, encode token all
that does is JSON stringify and
then base 64 and reverse for decode.
So we can set the cookie and
now that will be sent in the back and
forth responses as well.
You can avoid the redirects that is
absolutely an option for
you to use, right?
If the cookie has the username you just
wanna make sure it's displayed in page.
Set the cookie, make sure username you
put in there almost like picture data is
displayed on the page.
Do you need to go fill out
a signup form for that?
No.
Do you need to go through and
see the database?
Probably not, right?
You're just trying to make
sure that what you think.
But if you need to access real data and
relations and all that kind of stuff and
you're testing to see if like,
access management works,
you either need to probably see the
database or do something a little more.
All these are various tools
to solve different problems.
I'm not saying you don't
need this one all the time.
You do need this other one,
I'm saying for different sets of tests,
there are different things that you need,
and arguably whatever is going to be both
getting you the reliability that you seek,
with the least cost of time, cuz again,
No one's gonna run a six hour test suite,
I've been there.
As well, and so this is a case where like,
you could fire off the request yourself,
right?
We're here you fire off the request,
you get the response.
You are then setting the cookie yourself
instead of filling in the login form.
So this is using a real
database data at this point,
instead of me putting in
some fake stuff up here.
So setting your fake is super easy.
It's just side by side cookie.
Getting the user info from the database
and putting the parts that you need into
the cookie and
doing it yourself also an option, right.
That way you can test out different users
with different sets of permissions without
having to sign in and sign out every
single one of them over and over and
over again.
And like this is a really great
candidate for a command, right?
We can just put in the user
you're looking to go get and
it will do the rest of this and Mike could
be called, get user what have you, right.
And breaking that out into a command
yourself and you can kind of just,
you can alias this stuff,
so on and so forth as well.
But yeah, the cookies make it really easy.
And you could basically take this
application has a real database behind it.
We've seen you can see the database
have full end to end tests.
Or you can stub all this stuff out
depending on what you're trying to do,
right?
You will make sure the right requests
are made, like we can see that as well.